Drum Prodigy Taiko!

For my interactive project, I decided to play around with music and voice. The premise for my project goes as such:
“You are a Drum Master in the tiny village of Newindigo and have been asked to teach the newborn named Taiko.
It is important for Taiko to learn the drums because that is the main skill and recognition our village has to offer the world!”

In terms of the gameplay, the user has to play the drums for Taiko in order to teach him. He or she may do so by interacting with the 6 available keys “A, S, D, J, K & L”. Each key produces a different sound and every sound that you make, Taiko will remember. You have to keep on playing the drums for Taiko until he learns everything. If the user stops playing, Taiko will forget everything and his progress bar will reset to 0. This prompts the user to restart and teach Taiko anew. The user can also encourage Taiko by saying one of the two available “encouragement sentences”. This helps Taiko reach his autonomous state.
If the user successfully Taiko everything he needs to know about drums (If the user reaches max progress points), then Taiko will autonomously play the drums.
A key aspect to the project is the visual elements that come with it. Each of the 6 drum sounds has their own visual. When the user plays a sound, a shape and visual will be drawn on-screen. The canvas and all of these shapes are a visual representation of Taiko’s mind as he is learning to play the drums. If the user plays the drums, Taiko’s brain is stimulated. If the user stops playing, the visuals will halt and there will be no movement in Taiko’s brain.

In terms of the technical aspects of my project, I primarily played with Pizzicato.js to incorporate the drums. Pizzicato allows me to play the sounds and to have them loop and play in a desired pattern. This is great in showing the progress of Taiko’s learning. Throughout the whole game, I keep track of what sounds the user is playing and store them in an Array. If the user reaches the end game, then I am able to replay the saved drum pattern and loop it.
Visually, the end game is stunning because I set it up so that every time a sound is played, the linking visual is drawn live. When the final loop is played, the visuals also are looped and drawn, creating an endless beautiful abstract artwork that metaphorically represents Taiko’s acquired knowledge and cognition. In addition to Pizzicato.js, I have used Annyang to add more interactivity between the user and Taiko. The user can say words of encouragement to Taiko. If he hears them, these will allow the user to reach the end game faster.
